----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- DB11163/Farr
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The paper ‘Counting and Confusion : Bayesian Rate Estimation with
Mulitple Populations” by W.M Farr et al introduces a Bayesian
framework for rate estimation when the data is composed of both
foreground and background objects. They compare this new framework
with existing methods such as the loudest-event statistic and the
foreground-dominated statistic.

This article is an important step in attempting to answer a
statistical resolution problem for separation of foreground and
background events. The authors have presented their framework via
application to the problems of gravitational wave data analysis and
the determination of the shape of globular clusters. While the
statistical methods employed are not necessarily new, the final result
is important and should be published in Physical Review D.

As the authors have themselves stated, it will be interesting to see
how the framework performs when dealing with realistic event rates and
not the analysis pipeline based rates. I feel a more difficult
question to answer will be the performance of this method when it
becomes difficult to properly catagorize a source as being foreground
or background, or to which family of sources a detection belongs to.

I have some minor comments that the authors should consider.

In equation 47 the authors define the Fisher information matrix, and
in the following paragraph make the link between the Fisher matrix and
the Cramer-Rao lower bound. As they are presented in the paper, this
is only true in a Frequentist sense as it requires an unbiased
estimator. As the authors are presenting a Bayesian framework, there
is a Bayesian version of the Cramer-Rao bound that does not require an
unbiased estimator, and furthermore requires the parameter priors to
be folded into the Fisher matrix definition. Will this have an effect
on the framework presented by the authors?

Some parts of the text seem to be unnecessarily bold font. This seems
unwarranted.

The posterior curves in figure 5 are impossible to differentiate in
black and white printing. I suggest the authors update the line
styles.

The two images in figure 9 are too small. The y-axis labels on the
second image need to have a greater spacing.
